== CP/M ==

[https://obsolescence.wixsite.com/obsolescence/multicomp-fpga-cpm-demo-disk This page] provides a SD disk image for Grant Searle's Multicomp CP/M machine, based on the earlier version for the N8VEM computer. Also, a quick how-to is provided on how to exchange files between the Multicomp and a Windows PC.

What's on the disk image (links to docs):

== Languages ==

* [https://github.com/douggilliland/Retro-Computers/blob/master/Z80/Software/Manuals/Aztec_C_1.06_User_Manual_Mar84.pdf Aztec C v1.06 (compiles DWG N8VEM support apps)]
* [https://github.com/douggilliland/Retro-Computers/blob/master/Z80/Software/Manuals/BDS_C_V1.5_Users_Guide_Oct82.pdf BDS C] & Tiny C
* APL & Janus ADA v1.5
* Microsoft [https://github.com/douggilliland/Retro-Computers/blob/master/Z80/Software/Manuals/Microsoft_COBOL-80_1978.pdf Cobol], [https://github.com/douggilliland/Retro-Computers/blob/master/Z80/Software/Manuals/Microsoft_FORTRAN-80_Ver3.4_Users_Manual_Nov80.pdf Fortran], Basic, [https://github.com/douggilliland/Retro-Computers/blob/master/Z80/Software/Manuals/Microsoft_BASIC_Compiler_1980.pdf Basic Compiler]
* Microsoft [https://github.com/douggilliland/Retro-Computers/blob/master/Z80/Software/Manuals/Microsoft%20Macro80%205.0%20Reference.pdf Macro-80 assembler]
* [https://github.com/douggilliland/Retro-Computers/blob/master/Z80/Software/Manuals/BBC%20Basic%20(Z80).pdf BBC Basic]
* [https://github.com/douggilliland/Retro-Computers/blob/master/Z80/Software/Manuals/TURBO_Pascal_Reference_Manual_CPM_Version_3_Dec88.pdf Turbo Pascal v3.0], [https://github.com/douggilliland/Retro-Computers/blob/master/Z80/Software/Manuals/Turbo_Pascal_Tutor_1985.pdf Tutor]
* DX-Forth 4.01
* [https://github.com/douggilliland/Retro-Computers/blob/master/Z80/Software/Manuals/PLI%20Programmers%20Manual.pdf PL/I v1.4]
* [https://github.com/douggilliland/Retro-Computers/blob/master/Z80/Software/Manuals/Algol%20M%20Language%20Description.pdf Algol/M]

== Applications ==

* [https://github.com/douggilliland/Retro-Computers/blob/master/Z80/Software/Manuals/Wordstar_3.3_Reference_Manual_1983.pdf WordStar 3.30], [https://github.com/douggilliland/Retro-Computers/blob/master/Z80/Software/Manuals/CalcStar_Users_Manual_Oct81.pdf CalcStar], DataStar, SpellStar
* [https://github.com/douggilliland/Retro-Computers/blob/master/Z80/Software/Manuals/MuMath_and_MuSimp_1980_Soft_Warehouse_text.pdf muMath] & [https://github.com/douggilliland/Retro-Computers/blob/master/Z80/Software/Manuals/MuMath_and_MuSimp_1980_Soft_Warehouse_text.pdf muSimp] (CAS math package)
* [https://github.com/douggilliland/Retro-Computers/blob/master/Z80/Software/Manuals/Multiplan_for_CPM_1982.pdf Microsoft Multiplan]
* [https://github.com/douggilliland/Retro-Computers/blob/master/Z80/Software/Manuals/dBASE_II_Users_Guide_Feb83.pdf DBase II]
* Qterm, [https://github.com/douggilliland/Retro-Computers/blob/master/Z80/Software/Manuals/Crosstalk%20Manual.pdf Crosstalk], RCP/M, CLink (not installed yet)

== Games ==

* Infocom Adventures: [https://github.com/douggilliland/Retro-Computers/blob/master/Z80/Software/Manuals/zork1.pdf Zork I], [https://github.com/douggilliland/Retro-Computers/blob/master/Z80/Software/Manuals/zork2.pdf Zork II], [https://github.com/douggilliland/Retro-Computers/blob/master/Z80/Software/Manuals/zork3.pdf Zork III], [https://github.com/douggilliland/Retro-Computers/blob/master/Z80/Software/Manuals/Planetfall%20Infocom.pdf Planetfall]
** The classic Colossal Cave adventure
* Ladder & Catchum (Donkey Kong/Pacman clones)
* Sargon Chess, Othello
* Star Trek, Wanderer

== Tools ==

* [https://github.com/douggilliland/Retro-Computers/blob/master/Z80/Software/Manuals/Microshell_User_Manual.pdf Microshell] & [https://github.com/douggilliland/Retro-Computers/blob/master/Z80/Software/Manuals/Microtools_User_Manual.pdf microtools] - like the unix shell
* [https://github.com/douggilliland/Retro-Computers/blob/master/Z80/Software/Manuals/SuperSoft%20Utility%20Pack%202.pdf Supersoft Utilities 2] - useful unix-like tools
* [https://techtinkering.com/2008/10/21/installing-zde-1-6-a-programmers-editor-for-cpm/#:~:text=ZDE%20is%20a%20great%20editor%20and%20well%20worth,definitely%20help%20make%20your%20retro%20programming%20more%20productive. ZDE] - standard editor
* [https://github.com/douggilliland/Retro-Computers/blob/master/Z80/Software/Manuals/CPM%20DDT%20Users%20Guide%20(DRI).pdf DDT], DDTZ - standard debuggers/intel mnemonics
* [https://github.com/douggilliland/Retro-Computers/blob/master/Z80/Software/Manuals/CPM%20DDT%20Users%20Guide%20(DRI).pdf DDTZ80] - standard debugger/Zilog mnemonics
* [https://github.com/douggilliland/Retro-Computers/blob/master/Z80/Software/Manuals/CPM%20SID%20Users%20Guide%20(DRI).pdf SID], [https://github.com/douggilliland/Retro-Computers/blob/master/Z80/Software/Manuals/zsid%20manual.pdf ZSID] - original symbolic debugger
* [https://github.com/douggilliland/Retro-Computers/blob/master/Z80/Software/Manuals/debugz%20manual.pdf DEBUGZ] - Full-Screen debugger - probably the best
* [https://github.com/douggilliland/Retro-Computers/blob/master/Z80/Software/Manuals/Microsoft%20LINK-80%20Manual.pdf LINK] - Linker & LZ - [https://github.com/douggilliland/Retro-Computers/blob/master/Z80/Software/Manuals/linkz%20manual.pdf LinkZ], a faster L80 alternative
* [https://github.com/douggilliland/Retro-Computers/blob/master/Z80/Software/Manuals/CPM%20ASM%20Assembler%20(DRI).pdf ASM] - standard CP/M assembler/Intel mnemonics
* RMAC - macro assembler (v1) from Digital Research
* [https://github.com/douggilliland/Retro-Computers/blob/master/Z80/Software/Manuals/CPM%20MAC%20Macro%20Assembler%20(DRI).pdf MAC] - later (v2) version of RMAC
* ZTRAN4 - translate Intel to Zilog
* MC.SUB - Submit file for Macro-80 compile cycle
* SUPERSUB - a better Submit
* LS - a better dir
* ZAP - file manager
* NSWP207, WASH15, VFILER - file management tools
* NULU, LBREXT - for lbr archives
* CR, UNCR - (un)crunch *.*z* files
* USQ - unsQueeze *.?q? files
* UNARC, UNZIP - deals with arc, ark & zip files
* SURVEY - inventorise your system & test memory

== File Exchange ==

Some useful tools put together.

Although Grant provides a tool to transfer files to/from the Multicomp, there are other ways to access the SD card from your PC. The Tool Set download provides:

* a directory structure in the TO_IMG subdirectory with all the CP/M files to be shot into the drive image. So deposit any additional files in here if you want to add to this Demo Disk.
* a crude-but-effective cpmtools batch file to shoot the entire TO_IMG directory onto the drive image. Be sure to run this on an empty, freshly formatted drive image! Also, a word of caution: the Windows version of cpmtools does not seem to like user numbers above 9. 10-15 are thus off-limits.
* Win32 Disk Imager, to copy disk images to and from the actual SD card.
* cpmtools, to read & write files to the Multicomp drives on a disk image. The diskdefs file contains definitions for the Multicomp's A-E drives. Example: "cpmls -f hd0 imagefile.img" shows a dir of the A: drive, hd1 will show the B: drive, etc. See the cpmtools home page for cpmcp and other utils.
* Not in the download file is cpmcbfs, which allows you to mount the SD card as a drive on your Windows PC, and read/write straight to it. No need for image files as an intermediate step - but thus also less safe. See its home page. You can copy the diskdefs file from the Tool Set so cpmcbfs understands the Multicomp disk format.
