== Ohio Scientific Collection ==

OSI UK User Group Newsletter
Many thanks to Pete Targett for these scans!!

Issue / Date   

Pub. Date

Highlights

Vol 1 No. 1

Dec. 1979

Introduction; Very useful BASIC routines; Memory Locations of interest; Misc. ROM BASIC routines; Disentangling USR; Game reviews; Hardware Mods (2MHz, internal amplifier)

Vol 1 No. 2

Mar 1980

BASIC tips; Disc system notes; Input, screen print, graphics for games and the like; Suggested alterations to Aardvark games; Storage in BASIC; Larger display for C1/Superboard (50 x 30 no guard bands)

Vol 1 No. 3

June 1980

Documentation corner (BASIC notes and tips); List sorting; Designing new firmware for OSI systems; The range of OSI monitors

Vol 1 No. 4

Sep 1980

Documentation Corner (More BASIC notes and tips) Relocating Extended Monitor; Video Disply Mod: Killing Overscan on C1/Superboard and UK101; CEGMON notes; Velvet Software's peripheral control unit (review); The "garbage collector" bug

Vol 2 No. 1

Dec 1980

BASIC notes and tips; Disc Notes; Assembler Notes; CEGMON notes; BASICs of Machine Code (Part 2); Screen menus for C1; Passing multiple values with USR(X); Self starting programs; named file handler in BASIC; Hardware mods: 540B reverse video; ASR33 on UK101; System expansion

Vol 2 No. 2

Feb 1981

Adding your own commands to ROM BASIC; A hardware patch for the garbage collector bug; The BASICs of machine code(part 3); Disc Notes; CEGMON Notes; PAL colour for OSI 540 systems; Aardvark 8K memory board (review)

Vol 2 No. 3

April/May 1981

Stack Limits in FOR/NEXT and GOSUB; [C1P] Series 2—Some Surprises; A new look for OSI; BASIC Renumberer; Disk Notes; Running OS65D programs on BASIC-in-ROM; Hardware Mods: Double Sided drives; The BASICs of machien code (part 4): Binary juggling; 8-inch floppies for the Superboard; CEGMON Notes; Utilisation of unused video RAM on the C1E

Vol 2 No. 4

June 1981

The WAIT instruction; Practical Electronics' UK101 interface system—a review; Adding a disk drive: the data separator; Relocating the Assembler; 600 BAUD cassette interface; The BASICS of machine-code part 5: The Processor status flags

Vol 2 No. 5

Aug/Sep 1981

BASIC programming notes; SPC, TAB and POS; Hidden aspects of BASIC—Passing Variables; BASIC programs in EPROM; CEGMON Screen Fill; Extending CLEAR; GETKEY routine for the UK101; Disk Notes Cassette printer port on C1E with CEGMON and OS-65D The basics of machine code Part 6 Word Wizard , Codekit and BASIC 5 from Premier; Premier Publications' BASIC 4; 32x64 Display for Superboard II

Vol 2 No. 6

Nov/Dec 1981

String Graphics; CEGMON Print At; Using WAIT; UK101 Subroutine Killer; OS-65D with the Enhanced Superboard; Displaying Numbers in Machine Code; Assembler Notes - George Chkiantz Indirect Files in ROM BASIC; The Modem : key to computer communication; Forum-80 Bulletin Board; Extra Keys for the UK101; S0Hz Display for the Superboard; Magnum EPROM board;