This directory contains the programs for dumping and restoring mass storage
devices on a PDP8 to another system.  Precompiled exe for MSDOS are
provided which will run under windows 95 also.  On windows 95 don't have any
other programs running and you will need to close the DOS box to use the
serial port with a windows program.

The top of each program tells how to use them.  Most of these programs
use two fields so you need at least 8k memory.  If they don't end at the
normal halt they may leave the data field non zero so remember to do an
extd addr load to clear.

The top of config.c tells the format of the config file needed to use these
programs.  The top of the dumpxxxx and restxxxx programs will tell how to use
them.

The PDP8 programs have reassembled .bin files which can be sent out the
serial port in binary mode to the RIM loader so no operating system needs
to be running on the PDP8.  Under windows 95 the new hyperterminal from
www.hilgraeve.com will need to be used, the one that comes with it does not
seem to work correctly.  I have a config file for seyon under Linux which will
make it work.

All of the programs will work up to 38400 baud if you have a modified
serial board which will work at that speed.  The default serial port is
the standard console port but can be changed by reassembling the pal files.

Files:
(rest and dump have .pal and .c files)
restrk05        - RK05 Restore program
dumprk05        - RK05 Dump program
readrk05        - RK05 Surface scan program
testrk05        - RK05 Destructive read/write test
restrx01        - RX01 Restore program
dumprx01        - RX01 Dump program
resttd8e        - TD8E Dectape restore program
dumptd8e        - TD8E Dectape dump program
comm.c          - Communication routines for dump and restore C programs
config.c        - Config file read routine for dump and restore C programs
compall         - Unix shell file to compile all C files
compall.bat     - Dos bat file to compile all C files with turbo C
palall          - Unix shell file to assemble all pal files

Other useful programs:
From ftp.dbit.com/pub/putr programs to read files from and write files to
the images created by these programs.

From http://www.vobis.de/bbs/ari/files/cplus/library/en160.zip the library
I used with turbo c to compile the dos version of the C programs.

From ftp://ftp.cs.uiowa.edu/pub/jones/pdp8/palbart.c.Z the pal8 compiler
I use to assembler these programs.  Will also compile correctly will the
OS/8 PAL assembler

If you have questions or comments let me know
David Gesswein
djg@drs-esg.com
