== land-boards FPGA Multicomp Retro-Computers ==

* These files are the builds we have done of Grant Searle's [http://searle.hostei.com/grant/Multicomp/index.html Multicomp] Retro-Computer.
* We down-selected some of [http://searle.hostei.com/grant/Multicomp/index.html Grant Searle's Multicomp designs] and placed our checked our [https://github.com/douggilliland/Retro-Computers/tree/master/FPGA%20Retro%20Computers/MultiComp%20Archives FPGA archives here]
* Grant's projects are attempts to create 1970's and 1980's vintage computers using recent (or relatively recent) FPGA cards.
* The [http://land-boards.com/blwiki/index.php?title=RetroComputing RetroComputing Wiki page] for these projects is here].
* All this code uses our [http://land-boards.com/blwiki/index.php?title=EP2C5-DB EP2C5-DB FPGA Retro-Computer Daughter card].

== Tested Builds ==

* We have built and tested all of the below archives.

{| class="wikitable"
! Build Name
! CPU
! RAM
! Display/Keyboard
! Serial 1
! Serial 2
|-
| M6809_VGA_PS2_IntlRAM(2K)
| 6809
| 2K Internal
| VGA/PS-2
| ?
| ?
|-
| uk101_NTSC-PS2-ExtRAM-9600Ser.qar
| 6502
| 41K External
| NTSC Composite/PS-2
| 9600 baud
| No
|-
| Z80-CPM-VGA-PS2-ExtRAM
| Z80
| 64K
| VGA/PS-2
| ?
| ?
|-
|}

* Our [https://github.com/douggilliland/MultiComp other builds are located here].
** Some have not been shown to work.

== Ownership ==

* Some of these files such as FPGA designs and software libraries were created by others.
** There may be newer versions of these libraries "out there".
** Some libraries even have the same names but don't work the same.
* Many of these files were created by me based on the work of others.

=== Warning ===

* Use at your own risk.
** If you brick your part or it melt to a puddle, it's on you not me.
