== Ohio Scientific Collection ==

* Aardvark Journal

Issue	Highlights
Permission to use Aardvark Material	An email from Rodger Olsen, of Aardvark, to Mark Spankus, giving permission to post Aardvark materials, subject to some conditions.
Vol. 1. No. 1. (PDF)	Strings tutorial
Vol. 1 No. 2  (PDF)	"I met OSI", Variable Names, Data Files, Disk utils, Random Numbers,
Vol. 1. No. 3 (PDF)	Screen Clear, Speed in Basic,
Vo1. 1. No. 4 (PDF)	Memory saving techniques for BASIC; interfacing a 110-baud teletype; moving directory off of track 12; Random-access files;  Ateroid Race (game listing in BASIC).  Scan contributed by Steve Gray.
Vol. 1. No. 5 (PDF)	BASIC troubleshooting.  Killing (horiz.) Overscan on the C1P MOD, blanking vertical overscan
Vol.1 No. 6 (PDF)	Machine code utilities
Vol. 2. No. 1 (PDF)	Guide to Professional Programming (for OSI);BASICs of machine code; C1P head load/unload mod; C4P color and sound reset mod; Battlefleet; Slashball. Many thanks to Steve Gray for the scan!
Vol. 2. No. 2 (PDF)	Adventure writing (part 1); Adding a disk to ROM BASIC system; C1P scrolling inverse video mod (without extra RAM or software patch); mini word processor; improved random access files on 65D; memory relocator; Quick Printer II interface; 10 cent break key mod; break key time delay; flight of the millenium falcon. Many thanks to Steve Gray for the scan!
Vol. 2. No. 3 (PDF)	Adventure writing (part 2); Line pointers in ROM BASIC; Making your disk quiet (auto motor off); Standby power for C1/C4; Motor control for C1P (another method); Superboard sound (AY-3-8910); Improvements for random number generation. Many thanks to Steve Gray for the scan!
Vol. 2. No. 4 (PDF)	Single step trace program; random access files; Life
Vol. 2. No. 5 (PDF)	Putting tiny compiler on a diet; OS65D v3.3 review; Normal keyboard input routine(s); parallel printer interface; C1P ROM expansion; function plotter; home budget program; Alien Rain; Aardvark Journal Index. Many thanks to Steve Gray for the scan!
Vol. 2. No. 6 (PDF)	C1P Cheap disk; Reverse vid for C1P; RS232 for C4P; Another look at OS65D v3.3;
Linking Asm files; Memory Map
Vol. 3. No. 1 (PDF)	Peeks and Pokes; disk buffers; hiding ML routines; Saving ROM BASIC programs on disk; BASIC PLUS (C1P) Screen print; C1P Video Mod II on disk systems; 6502 OP CODE table generator; RS232 and 110 baud mods for C4P; Rubik's Cube; Yet another joystic interface. Many thanks to Steve Gray for the scan!
Vol. 3. No. 2 (PDF)	OS65D Review; WP-6502 relocation; Machine Lang Monitor; WPII 6502; Screen Displays; Hints on Video Swap; Fast Screen Clear; Baud Selector; Music for C1P; C1E installation; Recovering Programs; Disk Switch Hints; C1S ROM Tips; Enterfacing the 502; Re-Line Delete; Savign Space using Variables; Clutter for OSI; Text editor for C1E; Correction to Alian Brain; "Explosion" program; and more,"" Many thanks to Rene Chaddock for the scan!
Vol. 3. No. 3 (PDF)	Relocating WP6502 part 2; Music for C1P; Video patch for 65D; Command Modifications 65D; BASIC speed enhancer and replace LET with screen clear (SCL); disk BASIC program compressor; locating bad 2114 chips; structured programming techniques; ping pong; pool game. Many thanks to Steve Gray for the scan!